

  Q1:What is a punctuation?
	The name given to the marks, such as full stop, comma, and brackets, used in writing to
	separate sentences and their elements and to clearify meaning. 

  Q2:When to capitalize a word?
	1-At the start of a sentence.
	2-Proper nouns e.g. names, describe time, countries... 
	3-Titles e.g. Quran, Fast and Furious...
	4-Acronyms e.g. LCD.
  
  Q3:When to use a full stop?
	1-At the end of 2 types of sentences  and they are:
	  1-Declarative sentence: states a fact and ends with a period / full stop.
	  2-Imperative sentence: is a command or a polite request.
	  There are the rest types of sentences, but they don't end with a comma: 
	  3-Interrogative sentence: asks a question and ends with a question mark.
	  4-Exclamatory sentence: expresses excitement or emotion.
	2-At the end of a statement which is is something that you say or write which gives information in a formal or definite way.

	A sentence contains a subject and an object and is the basic unit of speech through which we express ourselves. Every sentence 
	in English MUST contain a verb.

	A sentence can be expressed as a question:

	"Is Chris a girl?"

	A sentence can also be a basic presentation of facts - i.e. a statement:

	"Chris is a girl."

	A statement does not necessarily contain a verb.

	"Not here." can be a statement giving the answer to the question "Where is Chris?" It provides the basic information the 
	questioner was seeking but, as you can see, there is no verb. Thus it is not a sentence.

  Q3:When to use a comma?
	Used to indicate a break or pause within a sentence.
	Bill Gates, who is the CEO of Microsoft, does a lot of work for charity.
	
	Used when listing three or more items in a series.
	The fruit basket contained apples, bananas, and oranges.
	
	Used to separate two or more adjectives describing a noun.
	The powerful, resonating sound caught our attention.
	
	Used to separate an introductory phrase from the rest of the sentence.
	After the show, John and I went out to dinner.
	
	Used to separate two independent clauses.
	Ryan went to the beach yesterday, but he forgot his sunscreen.

  Q4:What an independent clause?
	An independent clause is a clause that can stand on its own, by itself. It does not need to be joined to any other clauses, because
	it contains all the information necessary to be a complete sentences. 

	Independent clauses have three components:

	They have a subject - they tell the reader what the sentence is about.
	They have an action or predicate - they tell the reader what the subject is doing.
	They express a complete thought - something happened or was said.

  Q5:What is a predicate?
	The predicate is the part of a sentence (or clause) that tells us what the subject does or is.(what is he?)

  Q6:What is a clause?
	A clause is a group of words that includes a subject and a verb.(what is he doing/done?).

  Q7:When to use a colon?
	Used to introduce a list.
	Used to introduce an example
	There’s only one person old enough to remember that wedding: grandma. 
  
  Q8:When to use a quotation mark?
	Used to enclose a direct quote from a spoken or written source.
	Used to denote the name of a film or book.
	I am currently reading “Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets”. 

  Q9:When to use a semicolon?
	Use a semicolon to separate two related but independent clauses.
	People continue to worry about the future; our failure to conserve resources has put the world at risk.
	Used to separate a complex/different series of items.
	I went to the show with Jake, my close friend; his friend, Jane; and her best friend, Jenna.


  
